Bash Test Operators
===================
This cheat sheet is based on the [Advanced Bash-Scripting Guide](http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/tests.html) by Mendel Cooper.

Compound Comparison
-------------------

`-a`

logical `and`

Similar to `&&`

`-o`

logical `or`

Similar to `||`

Integer Comparison
------------------

`-eq`

is equal to

`if [ "$a" -eq "$b" ]`

`-ne`

is not equal to

`if [ "$a" -ne "$b" ]`

`-gt`

is greater than

`if [ "$a" -gt "$b" ]`

`-ge`

is greater than or equal to

`if [ "$a" -ge "$b" ]`

`-lt`

is less than

`if [ "$a" -lt "$b" ]`

`-le`

is less than or equal to

`if [ "$a" -le "$b" ]`

`<`

is less than

(within double parentheses)

`(("$a" < "$b"))`

`<=`

is less than or equal to

(within double parentheses)

`(("$a" <= "$b"))`

`>`

is greater than

(within double parentheses)

`(("$a" > "$b"))`

`>=`

is greater than or equal to

(within double parentheses)

`(("$a" >= "$b"))`

String Comparison
-----------------

`=`

`==`

is equal to

The == comparison operator behaves differently within a double-brackets test than within single brackets.

\[\[ $a \== z\* \]\]   \# True if $a starts with an "z" (pattern matching).
\[\[ $a \== "z\*" \]\] \# True if $a is equal to z\* (literal matching).

\[ $a \== z\* \]     \# File globbing and word splitting take place.
\[ "$a" \== "z\*" \] \# True if $a is equal to z\* (literal matching).

`!=`

is not equal to

if \[ "$a" != "$b" \]

This operator uses pattern matching within a \[\[ ... \]\] construct.

`<`

is less than, in ASCII alphabetical order

Note that the `<` needs to be escaped within a \[ \] construct.

if \[\[ "$a" < "$b" \]\]
if \[ "$a" \\< "$b" \]

`>`

is greater than, in ASCII alphabetical order.

Note that the `>` needs to be escaped within a \[ \] construct.

if \[\[ "$a" \> "$b" \]\]
if \[ "$a" \\> "$b" \]

`-z`

string is null

that is, has zero length

if \[ \-z "$s" \]

`-n`

string is not null.

if \[ \-n "$s" \]

File Test Operators
-------------------

`-e`

`-a`

file exists

`-a` is deprecated and its use is discouraged.

`-f`

file is a regular file (not a directory or device file)

`-d`

file is a directory

`-h`

`-L`

file is a symbolic link

`-b`

file is a block device

`-c`

file is a character device

`-p`

file is a pipe

`-S`

file is a socket

`-s`

file is not zero size

`-t`

file (descriptor) is associated with a terminal device

This test option may be used to check whether the `stdin [ -t 0 ]` or `stdout [ -t 1 ]` in a given script is a terminal.

`-r`

file has read permission (for the user running the test)

`-w`

file has write permission (for the user running the test)

`-x`

file has execute permission (for the user running the test)

`-g`

set-group-id (sgid) flag set on file or directory

`-u`

set-user-id (suid) flag set on file

`-k`

sticky bit set

`-O`

you are owner of file

`-G`

group-id of file same as yours

`-N`

file modified since it was last read

`-nt`

file f1 is newer than f2

`if [ "$f1" -nt "$f2" ]`

`-ot`

file f1 is older than f2

`if [ "$f1" -ot "$f2" ]`

`-ef`

files f1 and f2 are hard links to the same file

`if [ "$f1" -ef "$f2" ]`

`!`

"not" -- reverses the sense of the tests above (returns true if condition absent).

Notes
-----

Based on the [Advanced Bash-Scripting Guide](http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/tests.html) by Mendel Cooper.

You can modify and improve this cheat sheet [here](http://cheat.kapeli.com)